Move add new device howto to docs (#32950)
project-chip/connectedhomeip: docs/cluster_and_device_type_dev/how_to_add_new_dts_and_clusters.md

           add the `xyz-mode.cpp` file to the `sources` section.
        7. In
           [src/app/common/templates/config-data.yaml](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/src/app/common/templates/config-data.yaml):
            1. Add a `<XYZMode>::ModeTag` to the `EnumsNotUsedAsTypeInXML`
               section.
            2. Add an `XYZ Mode` entry to the
               `CommandHandlerInterfaceOnlyClusters` section.
        8. In
           [src/app/util/util.cpp](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/src/app/util/util.cpp),
           in the `// Cluster Init Functions...` section, add a void
           `MatterXYZModePluginServerInitCallback() {}` definition.
        9. In
           [src/app/zap-templates/zcl/zcl-with-test-extensions.json](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/src/app/zap-templates/zcl/zcl-with-test-extensions.json):
            1. Add the `xyz-mode-cluster.xml` to the `xmlFile` list
            2. In the `attributeAccessInterfaceAttributes` entry, add your new
               entry
               `"XYZ Mode": [ "SupportedModes", "CurrentMode", "FeatureMap" ]` -

>                this will mean ZAP won't autogen code to handle these attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               this will mean ZAP won't generate code to handle these attributes
```

And then you do not need to claim `autogen` is a word.

            1. Add your `XYZ_MODE_CLUSTER: []` to `ClientDirectories: { }`
               object
            2. Add your `"XYZ_MODE_CLUSTER": ["mode-base-server"]` to
               `"ServerDirectories": { }`
    4. The code under
       [src/app/tests/suites/certification](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification)
       for YAML or
       [src/python_testing](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/python_testing)
       for Python should ideally implement the test plan (section 4 below).
    5. A test under
       [src/app/tests/suites](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/src/app/tests/suites)
       (not certification) can test anything, in addition to, or preceding the
       official YAML representing the official test plan.
4. Add the test plan, using the templates below:

    1. [cluster_test_plan_template.adoc](https://github.com/CHIP-Specifications/chip-test-plans/blob/master/src/template/cluster_test_plan_template.adoc)
    2. [test_plan_template.adoc](https://github.com/CHIP-Specifications/chip-test-plans/blob/master/src/template/test_plan_template.adoc)

>     Also, join this private Slack channel: csg-tt-test-plans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Also, join this private Slack channel: `csg-tt-test-plans`
```

Reviewer: It is not as clear how to join a private slack channel. Maybe instruct users to ask others (where?) to add them to this channel?

>     Also, join this private Slack channel: `csg-tt-test-plans`

Author: ```suggestion
    Also, ask to join the private `csg-tt-test-plans` Slack channel.
```

>     Also, ask to join the private `csg-tt-test-plans` Slack channel.

Author: ```suggestion
    Also, ask to be added to the private `csg-tt-test-plans` Slack channel.
```

               device
            2. Add the section's name to the list of items named "collection"
            3. Do a ZAP code regen: `./scripts/tools/zap_regen_all.py`.
7. Add the device type spec to the test plan tools:

    1. [tools/device_type_requirements](https://github.com/CHIP-Specifications/chip-test-plans/tree/master/tools/device_type_requirements)
    2. The file above is used by
       [src/app/tests/suites/certification/Test_TC_DESC_2_1.yaml](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification/Test_TC_DESC_2_1.yaml)

    Note: the plan is to make the DM tools generate the device type requirements
    data based on the spec, so the above will become obsolete.

8. Add the device type to Chef:
   [examples/chef/devices](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/examples/chef/devices)

## Q & A

**Q1**: What kind of devices can be used for the test events? Can one of them be
the example cluster server app running on a RasPI? Do the independent
realizations need to run on vendor hardware or can they also run on generic
hardware, such as ESP32 or RasPI?

> **A1**: one realization can be the test harness + the all clusters example app +

Reviewer 2: Suggest just giving a link to the cert policy or something here. They have a whole doc that deals with test events. Granted, it's not exactly easy to read. But that is the source of truth, and I don't want to get out of sync with that.

Author: Good point.  Is the cert policy public?

Author: Per sidebar convo, cert policy is not public, so not going to put in a link.
